# Serialization Formats
Serialization in CosmWasm allows you to inspect and debug messages sent on the blockchain and parse results without the need of complex libraries or downloading custom schemas and ABIs

## JSON
JSON is self-describing, human-readable, and used in APIs everywhere. It does have some downsides, such as handling numbers over 2^53 (in that case you can use strings), no clear distinction between strings and base64-encoded binary, and no hard-coded schema. We auto-generate JSON Schema descriptors for the public API of contracts , which can be used to inspect the supported API and optionally used in client-side tooling for auto-validation of messages.

Note that contracts define their own parsing logic for messages, and the codec is not enforced by the framework. While there is extended support for JSON through '''cosmwasm::serde``` and ```cw-template``, but anyone can change as long as it is provided client support for the custom format.


## Protobuf
Protobuf is a well-known and widely-supported binary format. It gives a stricter schema guarantee than JSON and a more compact format. Protocol Buffers and GRPC support have been added with the Cosmos SDK v0.39.0 upgrade.

## Cap'n Proto
Cap'n Proto is a super-lean encoding format with zero-copy reads, and no parsing needed. This has been suggested for use in CosmWasm as an optional addition. This may be considered as an opt-in format for contracts desiring such efficiency or strict schema, or possibly just used for encoding internal data structures (Params).