---
objectID: developers_guides_ai-assistance_introduction
title: Introduction
description: How to use AI assistance to build dapps on Archway
parentSection: Developers
parentSectionPath: /developers
---

# Overview

The rise of AI-based systems has significantly enhanced the capabilities of developers across all skill levels in writing software programs. At Archway, we recognize the potential of these AI systems to transform the way smart contracts are developed and how frontend solutions interact with these contracts. This series of guides aims to provide a comprehensive introduction to leveraging AI, particularly ChatGPT, in the development of smart contracts and associated frontend applications on the Archway blockchain.

## Why use AI for smart contract development?

AI solutions, offer a range of benefits to developers:

- **Accelerated Development**: AI can generate code snippets, suggest best practices, and provide templates, significantly speeding up the development process.
- **Error Detection and Debugging**: AI can help identify bugs and errors in your code, offering potential fixes and improvements.
- **Learning and Skill Enhancement**: For new developers, AI serves as an interactive tutor, providing explanations and guidance on complex concepts.
- **Innovation and Creativity**: By using AI, developers can explore new ideas and push the boundaries of what is possible in smart contract development.

## What to expect from these guides

These guides are designed to help you harness the power of AI in your development workflow. Here’s what you can expect:

- **Step-by-Step Tutorials**: Detailed walkthroughs on creating smart contracts and frontend solutions using AI tools.
- **Practical Examples**: Real-world examples and use cases to demonstrate the application of AI in smart contract development.
- **Best Practices**: Insights into best practices for using AI to ensure secure, efficient, and scalable solutions.
- **Troubleshooting Tips**: Guidance on how to effectively troubleshoot issues using AI.

## Embrace the possibilities

While AI solutions may not always be perfect, they provide a robust starting point for your projects. By integrating AI into your development process, you can not only streamline your workflow but also enhance the quality of your output. We encourage developers to experiment, innovate, and push the boundaries of what is possible with AI-assisted development.

These guides are a testament to our belief in the transformative potential of AI. We hope they inspire you to explore new frontiers in smart contract development on the Archway blockchain.