---
objectID: developers_frameworks-sylvia
title: Sylvia
description: Sylvia is a framework created to give an abstraction-focused and scalable solution for building CosmWasm Smart Contracts
parentSection: Developers
parentSectionPath: /developers
---

# Sylvia framework

<a href="https://github.com/CosmWasm/sylvia" target="_blank">Sylvia</a> is a framework created for developing CosmWasm Smart Contracts, enhancing the core functionalities of the <a href="https://crates.io/crates/cosmwasm-std" target="_blank">cosmwasm-std</a> and other core crates including cw-storage-plus for easier state management, and the cw-multi-test but with additional tooling. Key highlights include simplified contract setup, automated code generation, and emphasis on idiomatic Rust practices. It also covers advanced topics like contract interfaces, custom error handling, and multitest support.

## How does it work?

The Sylvia framework, layered on top of core CosmWasm components (**cosmwasm-std**, **cw-storage-plus**, **cw-multi-test**), simplifies contract creation by removing the need to know message structures and APIs required for each core component. Instead of focusing on message details, developers define contract behavior through traits implemented on their smart contract types. Sylvia then automatically generates essential elements like entry point structures and message dispatch functions, along with multitest helpers. This approach enhances interface control and ensures comprehensive validation during compilation.

## Where to start?

To begin exploring the Sylvia framework, the ideal starting point is the [Sylvia GitHub page](https://github.com/CosmWasm/sylvia). This page offers comprehensive details on initial steps and usage. For further in-depth understanding, including some advanced concepts, the [Sylvia Book](https://cosmwasm.github.io/sylvia-book/index.html) is a valuable resource.