---
objectID: community_calendar
parentSection: Participate
parentSectionPath: /community
title: Community Calls
description: Participate to the Community Calls and make your voice heard.
---



# Community Calls

There are several community-driven initiatives which provide a space to propose ideas, learn, and interact with other community members.

1. **Builders Calls**

Builders Calls provide a space for developers to discuss about Archway's ADRs, make feature requests, interact and get support from Phi Labs teams. Builders Calls are also an opportunity for developers to share their latest projects and insights, as well as a collaborative way to troubleshoot challenges, foster collaborative learning and innovate. 

Builders Calls are held on Wednesdays at 15:00 UTC. 

2. **Governance Calls**

Engage in the decision-making process by participating in the Governance Calls. Delve into discussions about protocol upgrades, policy changes, and strategic planning. Being active in the Governance Calls is a key element for a fair and decentralized ecosystem

Governance Calls are held on Wednesdays at 17:00 UTC.


3. **Ambassador Calls**

Ambassador Calls bring together passionate Archway advocates to share successful outreach strategies, discuss community challenges, and brainstorm creative ways to nurture the community.

4. **Tokenomics Calls**

Tokenomics Calls unpack the dynamics and mechanisms of Archway's tokenomics. Wheter you are a tokenomics expert, knwoledgeable about finance concepts or simply eager to learn, these sessions provide insights over the possible decisions to optimize the implementation of Archway's tokenomics design.

5. **Twitter Spaces**

In Twitter Spaces you can find lively discussions, Q&A sessions, and enriching conversations. Twitter Spaces provides an accessible platform to share thoughts, ask questions, and connect with fellow enthusiasts.


## Upcoming Calls

The details regarding the Community Calls can be found on the <a href="https://philabs.notion.site/c4c1ff77f6e348b4b63320b6ac126266?v=eabf9d67f950458fb8cf0e7f189ded31" target="_blank">Notion calendar</a>.


### Weekly Builders Call #7
**When:** Wednesday 20th September, at 15:00 UTC.

**Where:** Discord, in the <a href="https://discord.com/channels/892203409418092615/1131985993101213746" target="_blank">builders-calls</a> voice channel. Make sure to get a *Developer* role in the <a href="https://discord.com/channels/892203409418092615/1004693111181688973" target="_blank">get-a-role</a> channel first.

**Duration**: 1h

**Agenda**:

**Protocol & DevX Discussion**
- [Allow Fee Grants for Whitelisted Contracts](https://github.com/CosmWasm/wasmd/issues/1571)
- Feedback and Q&As

**Dapp Showcase: [Nomos Multisig](https://rafael-contreras.gitbook.io/nomos-docs/)**

**Guest:** [Chelo Labs](https://chelo.fi/)

- Showcase of Nomos Multisig
- Feedback and final Q&As

## How to Participate

Participating in our community calls is easy! Stay tuned to our official communication channels for announcements about upcoming sessions, topics, and guest speakers. Most calls are hosted on virtual platforms, accessible via web browsers or specific apps. Join the conversation, share your insights, and be a driving force in shaping our community's future.

We look forward to having you join our diverse and dynamic community calls. Your contribution is what makes our ecosystem thrive!
