---
objectID: community_interact-dapps_interact-with-dapp-using-keplr
title: Interact with dapps using Keplr
description: Discover the process of interacting with dapps developed on the Archway blockchain via the Keplr wallet
parentSection: Participate
parentSectionPath: /community
---

::youtubeEmbed{src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/tZtDYwVhwVE" tailwindClasses="w-full lg:w-3/4 h-96"}
::

<br>

# Interact with Dapp using Keplr

Archway is a robust, incentivized blockchain network that allows developers to capture the value their dapps create. Keplr, on the other hand, is a wallet that supports Archway and several other blockchains. It's a fantastic tool for interacting with dapps. This demo will walk you through the process of interacting with a dapp deployed on the Archway network using Keplr.


## Arch ID

For this demo, we will be utilizing the <a href="https://archid.app" target="_blank">Arch ID dapp</a>. Arch ID is a name service for Archway Network, supporting domains, subdomains, and web2 identity verification.


## Connect wallet

On the Arch ID web page, click "**Connect Wallet**" and then clikc "**Keplr**". If this is your first time connecting to the Archway network, you will be prompted by Keplr to approve the addition of the network. You should then click the approve button.

## Register domain

Now let’s execute a transaction to register your own unique arch ID domain name. In the text box enter a name. You will be notified if the name is available or not. If the name is available you can then select the duration for which you want to register the name. For this demo, I will select 2 years. 

You can then click the "**Register**" button. When you see the transaction request from your Keplr extension, check the transaction details to ensure they're correct. After verifying, click "**Approve**" to confirm the transaction.

Your transaction was successful and you are now the owner of the domain created as an NFT on the Archway blockchain.
