---
objectID: community|airdrop-snapshots
parentSection: Participate
parentSectionPath: /community
title: Airdrop snapshots
description: An explanation of all the snapshots used to generate the first Archway airdrop.
---

# Airdrop Snapshots

The Genesis Airdrop, initiated by the Archway Foundation, serves as a means of giving back to active Cosmonauts while helping to distribute the ARCH token supply more widely. Snapshots were taken for selective chains, each capturing the timeframe from the genesis of their respective chains until 1/16/2023 at 18:03 UTC, following the [phi - golden ratio](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Golden_ratio) principle. The ultimate compilation of addresses can be accessed through this link [Final list of addresses](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1rzMuhKDJ1ur0F_jXtT5ZLp-d3tcQuNxV-dhCU8rQbgQ/edit?usp=sharing).


## Cosmos Stakedrop

The snapshot for the Cosmos airdrop targets stakers within the Cosmos ecosystem. Eligibility requires a stake of **25 or more** ATOM. However, tokens that were delegated to the validators listed below were not considered:

- Two validators from Coinbase
- Two validators from Binance
- One validator from Kraken

A total of **141,614 addresses** from the snapshot will participate in the airdrop, with **29,412,980 ARCH** tokens to be distributed among these addresses. The allocation is 1:1 for staked ATOM between 25 and 2000, averaging about **207.7 ARCH** per wallet.

## Axelar bridgedrop

Axelar Bridgedrop employs a unique airdrop mechanism. The snapshot for the Bridgedrop captures the state of all the assets bridged between different blockchain networks using Axelar's cross-chain communication protocol.

To be eligible for this airdrop, a minimum of **€5,000** must have been bridged via Axelar. A total of **7,250 addresses** were captured in this snapshot for the airdrop, with a collective distribution of **2,900,000 ARCH** tokens. Each participating address will receive an equal allocation of **400 ARCH** tokens.


## Terra (Classic) Dev Drop

Terra Classic Dev Drop focuses on rewarding developers who have contributed to the Terra ecosystem. To be eligible for this distribution, you must have deployed a contract on Terra Classic. A total of **6,416 addresses** have met this criterion, making them eligible for a share of the **2,566,400 ARCH** tokens set aside for the airdrop. Each of these addresses will receive a uniform allotment of **400 ARCH** tokens.


## Testnet Dev Drop

Similar to the Terra Classic Dev Drop, the Testnet Dev Drop focuses on rewarding developers who contributed to the Archway testnet ecosystem. In order to be eligible, your address must have been used on either the **constantine-2** or **Torii** testnets in the past. Due to the nature of this being a testnet, some state history has been lost over time so some addresses may not be present but everything that could be recovered is present. Each qualifying address will receive a distribution of **25 ARCH** tokens. With a total of **36,061** eligible addresses, this amounts to a distribution of **901,525 ARCH** tokens.


## Conclusion

The airdrop will be claimable shortly after Archway mainnet genesis to all active participants via  Archway Connect. Check if your address is present in the snapshots now via our Address Eligibility Checker tool.

A total of **191,342 addresses** qualify for the airdrop, which will distribute **35,753,330 ARCH** tokens. This leaves a balance of **14,246,670 ARCH** tokens available for future airdrops.
