---
objectID: developers_guides_my-first-dapp_start
title: Project setup
description: Instructions for setting up the development environment
parentSection: Developers
parentSectionPath: /developers
---

# Project Setup

In the [Getting Started Setup](/developers/getting-started/setup) section, you learned how to create and configure a new project using the Archway Developer CLI. Projects initiated with **archway new** can utilize our predefined templates as starting points. For this guide, we will create a project using the [**Increment**](https://github.com/archway-network/archway-templates/tree/main/increment) contract template.

Ensure that you have [Archway Developer CLI](/developers/developer-tools/developer-cli) installed. If you haven't yet created an account within the Archway Developer CLI, you can do so now by following these [steps](/developers/getting-started/setup#creating-an-account).


## Creating a project

Execute the following command to create a new project:

::highlight-card

```bash
archway new
```
::


You will be asked for the following information:

1. **Enter the name of the new project**: Type in a name for your project.
2. **Select a chain to use**: Use your keyboard's up and down arrow keys to select one of the available chains for the project. You should see an option for **Archway Testnet**, which is the stable testnet recommended for dapp development, and **Archway**, the production network. For this example, select **Archway Testnet**.
3. **Choose a name for your contract**: Each project can have one or more contracts, and this name will be given to the first contract created within the project. Name this contract **increment**.
4. **Choose a starter template**: This is the template your first contract will be built from. Since we are creating a contract based on the [**Increment**](https://github.com/archway-network/archway-templates/tree/main/increment) template, select **Increment** from the list.
5. **Which version do you want to generate?**: This particular template has two variants: **full**, which provides the full feature set of the template, and **minimal**, a more barebones version. For this example, let's go with **full**.


Archway Developer CLI should then go through the process of downloading and compiling what is needed to get your project set up and ready for you to deply and interact on chain.

## Request testnet Tokens

To execute transactions on any of the available Archway networks, you will need tokens. Different networks require different types of tokens, depending on whether you are working on a **testnet** or **mainnet**. For testnet purposes, 'testnet tokens' are typically used, which can be acquired without real-world cost via a faucet. The [guide on accessing testnet tokens](/developers/guides/faucet) gives a walkthrough of how to obtain these tokens.
