---
objectID: developers|guides|my-first-dapp|wasm
title: Producing Wasm executables
description: Instructions for compiling Rust code to Wasm and deploying the resulting smart contract on the Archway Network
parentSection: Developers
parentSectionPath: /developers
---

# Producing Wasm executables

After having built and tested the project, it is important that to test the dapp on Archway too. To do this you need to build it as a **wasm** executable, then upload and instantiate it on chain.

For that, you need the **wasm32-unknown-unknown** target installed in the toolchain as well. See the [Installation Guide](/developers/getting-started/install#wasm32) to have this dependency installed.


There are two  types of **wasm** binaries that can be produced by the Developer CLI. Let's call them _"default"_ **wasm** and _"CosmWasm"_ **wasm**.

## Default Wasm executables

Regular **wasm** binaries can be produced by running the Rust native command **cargo wasm**.
::highlight-card

```bash
cargo wasm
```
::


Example output:
::highlight-card

```bash
Building wasm executable...

  Compiling proc-macro2 v1.0.28
  Compiling unicode-xid v0.2.2
  # And so on until ...
  Compiling my-project v0.1.0 (/home/my-system-path/my-project)
    Finished release [optimized] target(s) in 27.78s
```

::

While it is good to know that the project will compile valid **wasm** files, these executables cannot be uploaded to the blockchain; for that, you need to produce a _CosmWasm_ **wasm** binary.

## CosmWasm Wasm executables

_CosmWasm_ **wasm** executables are optimized using the **cosmwasm/rust-optimizer** which produces a smaller executable size than **cargo wasm**.

If you are coming from a **C++** background, it's like building executables with <a href="https://upx.github.io" target="_blank">UPX</a>,  as **cosmwasm/rust-optimizer** also compresses the binary to produce smaller build outputs.

To build a _CosmWasm_ **wasm** executable, pass the **-optimize** flag to **archway build**.
::highlight-card

```bash
archway build --optimize
```

::

The rust-optimizer will make sure that the WASM binary is as small as possible in order to minimize fees and blockchain storage.
::alert{variant="info"}
To use the rust-optimizer you will need to have <a href=" https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/ubuntu/" target="_blank">Docker</a> installed.


#title
Info
::

Example output:
::highlight-card

```bash
Building wasm binary...
✔ Optimizing wasm file...
Optimized wasm binary saved to artifacts/my_first_dapp.wasm
```

::
