---
objectID: developers|troubleshoot
title: Troubleshooting
description: Troubleshooting guidance for developers working with the Archway platform
parentSection: Developers
parentSectionPath: /developers
---

# Troubleshooting Development Issues

Here you'll find instructions for troubleshooting common issues and problems that can occur during Archway development.

- [General errors](#general-errors)
- [Creating project fails](#project-creation)
- [Deployment failures](#deployment-failures)
- [RPC errors](#rpc-errors)
- [Testing](#testing)
- [File permissions](#permissions-errors)

## General Errors

### Process exited with code 1 (ChildProcess)

There are times during development where you may receive unclear error messages from the developer CLI. This could be because the error message itself doesn't explain which part of the command has failed. These errors are usually triggered by Node's <a href="https://nodejs.org/api/child_process.html" target="_blank">Child Process</a> module panicking and failing to complete a <a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise" target="_blank">Promise</a>.
::highlight-card

```bash
Failed to deploy project
Error: Process exited with code 1
at ChildProcess.done (/home/user/.nvm/versions/node/v17.9.0/lib/node_modules/@archwayhq/cli/node_modules/promisify-child-process/index.cjs:70:19)
at ChildProcess.emit (node:events:527:28)
at maybeClose (node:internal/child_process:1090:16)
at Process.ChildProcess._handle.onexit (node:internal/child_process:302:5)
```

::
To understand the real source of the error, you'll need to execute your command with some debugging flags enabled. To understand how to enable debugging on the developer CLI, review our [debugging instructions](debug).

### SyntaxError: Invalid or unexpected token

You'll get this error message for all Archway commands, if the NPM package for the developer CLI was installed using a legacy version of <a href="https://nodejs.org/" target="_blank">Node.js</a>. To solve this problem update Node.js and reinstall the <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/@archwayhq/cli" target="_blank">NPM package</a>. For information about which versions of Node.js are supported, review the [developer installation instructions](/developers/getting-started/install#nodejs-and-npm).

## Project Creation

### Error: no such subcommand

When creating a new project with the **archway new** command, if you encounter an error message stating **error: no such subcommand: run-script** or **error: no such subcommand: generate**, it means you're missing a required <a href="https://github.com/rust-lang/cargo" target="_blank">Cargo</a> package.

To resolve the issue, ensure that you've installed both **cargo-generate** and **cargo-run-script**.

Example:
::highlight-card

```bash
cargo install cargo-generate --features vendored-openssl
cargo install cargo-run-script
```

::

## Deployment Failures

### CosmWasm Rust optimizer fails

If you are having issues with the **cosmwasm/rust-optimizer**, you may need to update the Cargo.toml file at the root of your project with a different version of the optimizer.

Example (Old Cargo.toml):

```toml
[package.metadata.scripts]
optimize = """docker run --rm -v "$(pwd)":/code \
  -e CARGO_TERM_COLOR=always \
  --mount type=volume,source="$(basename "$(pwd)")_cache",target=/code/target \
  --mount type=volume,source=registry_cache,target=/usr/local/cargo/registry \
  cosmwasm/rust-optimizer:0.12.5
"""
```

Example (Updated Cargo.toml):

```toml
[package.metadata.scripts]
optimize = """docker run --rm -v "$(pwd)":/code \
  -e CARGO_TERM_COLOR=always \
  --mount type=volume,source="$(basename "$(pwd)")_cache",target=/code/target \
  --mount type=volume,source=registry_cache,target=/usr/local/cargo/registry \
  cosmwasm/rust-optimizer:0.12.6
"""
```

### Deployment stuck at downloading WASM

This could be an issue with the RPC node. If your deployment is continually getting stuck downloading **wasm**, try downloading it manually or use the flag **--no-verify** to skip checksum verification entirely.

To manually download and verify the **wasm** uploaded, you'll need to know the **code id** which you can get by searching the <a href="https://explorer.constantine-2.archway.tech/" target="_blank">block explorer</a> for your upload transaction by its hash, or using the **archway history** command if your **config.json** was successfully updated after the transaction. Once you've got the **code id**, see below for an example of how to download and verify your **wasm** storage transaction.

Example:
::highlight-card

```bash
archwayd query wasm code $YOUR_CODE_ID --node "https://rpc.constantine-2.archway.tech:443" download.wasm
$ diff artifacts/YOUR_DOCKER_WASM_OUTPUT_FILE.wasm download.wasm
```

::

### WASM stores but contract fails to instantiate

The most common reason for deployments failing during instantiation is incorrect arguments submitted to the **--args** flags. See [test passed but on-chain tx fails](#test-passed-but-on-chain-tx-fails) for more information.

## Testing

### Can't print data from tests

Ever wondered why you can't use macros like **println!** and **dbg!** to write to **stdout** from tests? This happens because Rust tests hide the **stdout** stream of successful tests to keep test output tidy. You can disable this behavior by passing the **--nocapture** option to the test binary or to cargo test (but, in this case after -- – see below):

Examples:
::highlight-card

```bash
$ rustc --test main.rs; ./main

running 1 test
test test ... ok

test result: ok. 1 passed; 0 failed; 0 ignored; 0 measured

$ ./main --nocapture

running 1 test
Hidden output
test test ... ok

test result: ok. 1 passed; 0 failed; 0 ignored; 0 measured; 0 filtered out; finished in 0.00s

$ cargo test -- --nocapture

running 1 test
Hidden output
test test ... ok

test result: ok. 1 passed; 0 failed; 0 ignored; 0 measured; 0 filtered out; finished in 0.00s
```

::
If you need to make this the default behavior of the **archway test** command, you can do so by modifying the value of **developer.scripts.test** in **config.json** at the root of your project.

Example:

Default JSON (excerpt)

```json
{
  "developer": {
    "scripts": {
      "test": "cargo unit-test",
      "build": "cargo build",
      "optimize": "cargo run-script optimize",
      "wasm": "cargo wasm",
      "query": "archwayd query wasm",
      "tx": "archwayd tx wasm execute"
    }
  }
}
```

Updated JSON (excerpt)

```json
{
  "developer": {
    "scripts": {
      "test": "cargo unit-test -- --nocapture",
      "build": "cargo build",
      "optimize": "cargo run-script optimize",
      "wasm": "cargo wasm",
      "query": "archwayd query wasm",
      "tx": "archwayd tx wasm execute"
    }
  }
}
```

### Test passed but on-chain tx fails

A frequent cause for this issue is an error in the arguments specified in the **--args** flag of the **archway deploy** or **archway tx** command.

There are several things to consider when constructing your JSON arguments for the **--args** flag. Below are a few use cases that will cause instantiation to fail.

**1) Invalid JSON**

If your arguments are not submitted in valid JSON format the instantiation will fail. The full error response looks like this:
::highlight-card

```bash
error: option '-a, --args <value>' argument '{count:0}' is invalid. Please inform a valid JSON string.
```

::
**2) Invalid JSON key**

If your JSON values are all correct, but one or more of their keys are not recognized, you'll get an **Error parsing into type** response from the developer CLI. The full error message might look like this:
::highlight-card

```bash
Error: rpc error: code = InvalidArgument desc = failed to execute message; message index: 0: Error parsing into type increment_project::msg::InstantiateMsg: missing field `count`: instantiate wasm contract failed: invalid request
```

::
**3) Invalid JSON value**

If the JSON keys are correct, but one or more values are not, you'll get an **Invalid type** error response from the developer CLI. The full error message looks like this:
::highlight-card

```bash
Error: rpc error: code = InvalidArgument desc = failed to execute message; message index: 0: Error parsing into type increment_project::msg::InstantiateMsg: Invalid type: instantiate wasm contract failed: invalid request
```

::
::alert{variant="info"}
For help finding the source of problems with transaction aguments, see [how to debug failing transactions](debug#how-to-debug-failing-transactions) for more information about regenerating your schema.
#title
Info
::

## RPC Errors

### My code used to work, I didn't change anything

This can happen if the RPC node you're connecting to is running a different version of **archwayd**.

If you are using the Docker version of **archwayd**, pull again from Docker Hub to get the latest image.

Example:
::highlight-card

```bash
 docker pull archwaynetwork/archwayd:constantine
```

::
If you have installed **archwayd** locally from GitHub, you will need to pull the latest changes and reinstall **archwayd**.

Example:
::highlight-card

```bash
git fetch
git checkout tags/${tag_name} # e.g. git checkout tags/v0.0.5
make install
```

::

### InvalidArgument desc = account sequence mismatch

::highlight-card

```bash
Error: rpc error: code = InvalidArgument desc = account sequence mismatch, expected 13898, got 13884: incorrect account sequence: invalid request
```

::
The above error isn't caused by your code. It seems to occur during periods of high network activity. We are tracking the problem in <a href="https://github.com/archway-network/archway/issues/157" target="_blank">this</a> GitHub thread.

We are actively looking for ways to solve it, but in the meantime your best bet is to continue broadcasting the transaction until it works. In some cases, you may also be able to get your transaction through by switching the **--broadcast-mode** flag sent to **archwayd**. The developer CLI currently defaults to **--broadcast-mode block**, to switch to **--broadcast-mode sync** you'll need to call **archwayd** directly.

Example (Instantiate):
::highlight-card

```bash
archwayd tx wasm instantiate ${YOUR_CODE_ID} '{"key":"value"}' --from ${YOUR_WALLET_NAME} --label ${YOUR_DAPP_LABEL} --node "https://rpc.constantine-2.archway.tech:443" --chain-id "constantine-2" --gas-prices "0.001uconst" --gas "auto" --gas-adjustment 1.3 --broadcast-mode sync -y
```

::
Example (Tx):
::highlight-card

```bash
archwayd tx wasm execute ${YOUR_CONTRACT_ADDRESS} '{"entrypoint":{}}' --from ${YOUR_WALLET_NAME} --node "https://rpc.constantine-2.archway.tech:443" --chain-id "constantine-2" --gas-prices "0.001uconst" --gas "auto" --gas-adjustment 1.3 --broadcast-mode sync -y
```

::

## Permissions Errors

Docker setups are the source of most permissions errors, and by default Docker runs as the root user. If you're not running the Docker daemon in <a href="https://docs.docker.com/engine/security/rootless/" target="_blank">rootless mode</a>you may need to install the Archway developer CLI as root, or give your user permissions to the Archway directory on your filesystem.

Example:
::highlight-card

```bash
sudo chown YOUR_USERNAME:YOUR_GROUPNAME -R ~/.archway
```

::
This problem can be avoided by installing **archwayd** locally. For those instructions see: [install archwayd from source](/developers/getting-started/install#install-archwayd-from-source)

## Miscellaneous

###  Providing flags to archwayd without passing them to docker

If you are running docker and want to pass flags to **archwayd** without having those flags being used by docker, you can	run docker in interactive mode: 

::highlight-card

```bash
docker run -it 
```

::

### Cannot find module ‘fs/promises’


If you are getting the error **Cannot find module ‘fs/promises’. Requires stack:** while using the **developer cli** or **arhc3js** make sure that you are using a node version higher than **v14**.

### Transaction submitted but was not yet found on the chain

If you get the error **Transaction with ID … was submitted but was not yet found on the chain**, you may want to check if your transaction requires more gas than the **max gas** setting. If the computation requires more gas than that it will never be included in a block.


### Error: spawn archwayd ENOENT

If you are getting the error **spawn archwayd ENOENT**, make sure to correctly set the GOPATH. If you are using Linux, you can launch:
::highlight-card

```bash
export GOPATH=$HOME/go 
export PATH=$PATH:$GOROOT/bin:$GOPATH/bin
```

::
And then update your terminal shell by launching:
::highlight-card

```bash
source ~/.profile"
```

::