---
objectID: developers_cosm_wasm_smart-contracts_contract-semantics
title: Contract semantics
description: This document aims to clarify the semantics of how a CosmWasm contract interacts with its environment
parentSection: Smart Contracts
parentSectionPath: /developers/smart-contracts/introduction
---

# Contract semantics

This document clarifies how a CosmWasm contract interacts with its environment, focusing on the two main types of actions: **mutating** actions, which receive **DepsMut** and can modify the state of the blockchain, and **query** actions, which run on a single node with read-only access to the data.

## Execution

This section covers how the **execute** call operates, but it's important to note that the same principles apply to other **mutating** actions, such as **instantiate**, **migrate**, **sudo**, and so on.

### SDK context

Before diving into CosmWasm, it's essential to understand the semantics enforced by the blockchain framework it integrates with—the [Cosmos SDK](https://cosmos.network/appchains). This framework operates on the [Tendermint BFT](https://tendermint.com/core) Consensus Engine. Let's first examine how transactions are processed before and after they interact with CosmWasm.

1. **Transaction Selection**: The Tendermint engine seeks 2/3+ consensus on a list of transactions to include in the next block. These transactions undergo a minimal pre-filter by the Cosmos SDK module to ensure they are validly formatted, have sufficient gas fees, and are signed by an account with enough funds to pay the fees. It's worth noting that transactions that result in an error may still be included in a block.

2. **Transaction Execution**: Once a block is committed (typically every 5 seconds or so), the transactions are sequentially fed to the Cosmos SDK for execution. Each transaction returns a result or an error, along with event logs, which are recorded in the **TxResults** section of the next block. The **AppHash** (or Merkle proof of blockchain state) generated after executing the block is included in the next block.

3. **Isolated Context**: The Cosmos SDK's **BaseApp** handles each transaction in an isolated context. It verifies all signatures, deducts the gas fees, and sets the "Gas Meter" to limit execution to the amount of gas paid for by the fees. It creates an isolated context to run the transaction, allowing the code to read the current state of the chain but only write to a cache that may be committed or rolled back if an error occurs.

4. **Atomic Transactions**: A transaction may consist of multiple messages, each executed in turn under the same context and gas limit. If all messages succeed, the context is committed to the underlying blockchain state, and the results of all messages are stored in the **TxResult**. If any message fails, subsequent messages are skipped, and all state changes are reverted, ensuring atomicity.

The [x/wasm](https://github.com/CosmWasm/wasmd/tree/main/x/wasm) is a custom Cosmos SDK module that processes specific messages for uploading, instantiating, and executing smart contracts. It accepts a properly signed [MsgExecuteContract](https://github.com/CosmWasm/wasmd/blob/v0.50.0/proto/cosmwasm/wasm/v1/tx.proto#L181-L197) and routes it to [Keeper.Execute](https://github.com/CosmWasm/wasmd/blob/v0.50.0/x/wasm/keeper/keeper.go#L377-L418), which loads the appropriate smart contract and calls **execute** on it. This method may return either success (with data and events) or an error. In the case of an error, the entire transaction in the block is reverted.

### Basic execution

When implementing a contract, you provide the following entry point:

```rust
pub fn execute(
    deps: DepsMut,
    env: Env,
    info: MessageInfo,
    msg: ExecuteMsg,
) -> Result<Response, ContractError> { }
```

With **DepsMut**, this function can read and write to the backing **Storage**, use the **Api** to validate addresses, and **Query** the state of other contracts or native modules. Once done, it returns either **Ok(Response)** or **Err(ContractError)**. Here's what happens next:

- **Error Handling**: If it returns **Err**, the error is converted into a string representation (**err.to_string()**) and returned to the SDK module. All state changes are reverted, and **x/wasm** returns this error message, generally aborting the transaction and returning the same error message to the external caller.

- **Successful Execution**: If it returns **Ok**, the **Response** object is parsed and processed. The **Response** struct includes submessages, messages, attributes, and optional data. 

```rust
pub struct Response<T = Empty>
where
    T: Clone + fmt::Debug + PartialEq + JsonSchema,
{
    pub submessages: Vec<SubMsg<T>>,
    pub messages: Vec<CosmosMsg<T>>,
    pub attributes: Vec<Attribute>,
    pub data: Option<Binary>,
}
```

In the Cosmos SDK, a transaction returns a series of events to the user, along with an optional "data result." The **ResultHash** includes the **Code** (indicating success or error) and **Result** (data) from the transaction. Events and logs are accessible through queries, though they don't have light-client proofs.

### Dispatching messages

Contracts often need to interact with external entities, such as moving tokens or calling other contracts. This is where [messages](/developers/smart-contracts/message/message) come in. A contract can return multiple **CosmosMsg** objects, each representing an external call. These messages are executed in a depth-first order, ensuring that all messages and submessages are processed correctly.

CosmWasm prevents reentrancy attacks by following the actor model, which avoids nested function calls and instead returns messages that are executed later. This ensures that all state carried between calls is stored in persistent storage rather than memory, reducing the risk of vulnerabilities.

### Submessages

As of CosmWasm 0.14, [submessages](/developers/smart-contracts/message/submessages) were introduced to allow contracts to receive the results of dispatched messages. This feature is useful for cases like:

- **Obtaining the contract address when instantiating a new contract**
- **Handling errors from cross-contract calls**
- **Limiting gas usage for specific submessages**

A submessage wraps a **CosmosMsg** inside a **SubMsg** struct, which includes additional parameters such as a unique ID, gas limit, and reply strategy.

```rust
pub struct SubMsg<T = Empty>
where
    T: Clone + fmt::Debug + PartialEq + JsonSchema,
{
    pub id: u64,
    pub msg: CosmosMsg<T>,
    pub gas_limit: Option<u64>,
    pub reply_on: ReplyOn,
}

pub enum ReplyOn {
    Always,
    Error,
    Success,
    Never,
}
```

Submessages allow for partial state commits and error handling without rolling back the entire transaction. The calling contract can handle the result of the submessage using a **reply** entry point, which receives the result and any associated events.

### Handling replies

To handle the reply from a submessage, the calling contract must implement a [reply](/developers/smart-contracts/message/submessages#handling-a-reply) entry point:

```rust
#[entry_point]
pub fn reply(deps: DepsMut, env: Env, msg: Reply) -> Result<Response, ContractError> { }

pub struct Reply {
    pub id: u64,
    pub result: ContractResult<SubcallResponse>,
}

pub struct SubcallResponse {
    pub events: Vec<Event>,
    pub data: Option<Binary>,
}
```

After a submessage is executed, the caller can process the result based on the original ID and the execution result. The **reply** call can return a **Response** object, which may include additional messages, submessages, and data.

### Order and rollback

Submessages follow the same depth-first order as messages, with replies treated as immediate additional message calls. The execution order and rollback behavior ensure that contracts can handle complex interactions securely and predictably.

## Query semantics

In contrast to mutating actions, query actions provide read-only access to the contract's environment. Queries are essential for retrieving information, such as a contract's balance or state, during execution.

CosmWasm enables synchronous queries through a read-only **Querier** interface. These queries are serialized into a **QueryRequest** struct and passed to the runtime, where they are interpreted by the **x/wasm** SDK module.

```rust
pub enum QueryRequest<C: CustomQuery> {
    Bank(BankQuery),
    Custom(C),
    Staking(StakingQuery),
    Stargate {
        path: String,
        data: Binary,
    },
    Ibc(IbcQuery),
    Wasm(WasmQuery),
}
```

The **QuerierWrapper** simplifies the process of generating and using queries, providing convenience methods that wrap **QueryRequest** and **Querier.raw_query**.

For a more detailed explanation of the Querier design, see [Querying Contract State](/developers/cosmwasm-documentation/architecture/querying).