---
objectID: developers_cosm_wasm_smart-contracts_testing
title: Testing
description: Provides an overview of the testing tools and techniques available to developers
parentSection: CosmWasm
parentSectionPath: /developers/cosmwasm-documentation/introduction
---

# Testing

Eventually, testing becomes a crucial component of the Smart Contract development process. Tests ensure that modifications can be quickly integrated into the contract codebase without causing disruptions to other elements.

Generally, a well-designed set of contracts will have a comprehensive set of tests divided into two categories: Unit Testing and Integration Testing.


## Unit testing

Unit testing is a crucial part of software development, helping to ensure the correct functionality of your code and enabling you to catch any bugs or issues early in the development process.

In this section, we will explore the process of executing unit tests within a CosmWasm smart contract.

### Write unit tests

To write unit tests in Rust for CosmWasm smart contracts, you need to use the #[test] attribute to mark test functions. These functions should be placed in a tests module inside your smart contract source code, typically using a #[cfg(test)] attribute to only compile them during testing. You can use macros like assert!, assert_eq!, and assert_ne! to validate your code's behavior against expected outcomes.


### Run unit tests
Run the following command to perform the available unit tests:

```shell
RUST_BACKTRACE=1 cargo unit-test
```

After some compilation steps, you should observe:

```text
running 15 tests
test coin_helpers::test::assert_sent_sufficient_coin_works ... ok
test tests::test_module::fails_on_register_insufficient_fees ... ok
test tests::test_module::fails_on_register_wrong_fee_denom ... ok
test tests::test_module::proper_init_no_fees ... ok
test tests::test_module::fails_on_register_already_taken_name ... ok
test tests::test_module::fails_on_transfer_insufficient_fees ... ok
test tests::test_module::proper_init_with_fees ... ok
test tests::test_module::register_available_name_and_query_works ... ok
test tests::test_module::fails_on_transfer_non_existent ... ok
test tests::test_module::fails_on_transfer_from_nonowner ... ok
test tests::test_module::register_available_name_fails_with_invalid_name ... ok
test tests::test_module::register_available_name_and_query_works_with_fees ... ok
test tests::test_module::returns_empty_on_query_unregistered_name ... ok
test tests::test_module::transfer_works ... ok
test tests::test_module::transfer_works_with_fees ... ok

test result: ok. 15 passed; 0 failed; 0 ignored; 0 measured; 0 filtered out; finished in 0.00s
```

Using **RUST_BACKTRACE=1** will provide you with full stack traces for any errors, which is extremely useful. This only works for unit tests (which test native Rust code, not the compiled wasm). Additionally, if you're curious about the origin of **cargo wasm** and **cargo unit-test**, they are simply aliases defined in the **.cargo/config** file located in the project directory. Examining the file contents will give you a better understanding of the cargo flags.


### Mocking

Mocking and dependency injection are techniques that can help you isolate specific parts of your smart contract for testing. With mocking, you create fictitious objects or functions that replace the actual dependencies of your smart contract, allowing you to control their behavior during testing. Dependency injection involves passing these mocked dependencies as arguments to your smart contract functions, which allows you to simulate different conditions and scenarios without affecting the actual contract state or dependencies.

### Best practices

Some best practices for writing unit tests include:

- Organize tests by placing them in separate modules or files, grouped by the functionality they test.
- Follow naming conventions, such as using a descriptive name that indicates what the test is checking, like **test_transfer_funds_success** or **test_invalid_name_rejection**.
- Write clear, concise tests that focus on individual components of the smart contract, avoiding overly complex or unrelated tests.
- Test edge cases and potential failure scenarios to ensure your smart contract can handle different situations.
Keep tests independent of each other, so that the failure of one test does not affect the others.

## Integration testing with cw-multi-test

The **cw-multi-test** package offered in the **cw-plus** repository provides an interesting way to test your smart contracts without having to fully deploy them onto a testnet. Before the availability of the multi-test package, the typical workflow involved having a pipeline that would set up the contracts on a specified chain (such as a testnet or local network), perform tests, and then, if possible, destroy or self-destruct those contracts.

## cw-multi-test concepts

There are a few key concepts that you need to understand before you can simulate a blockchain environment in Rust and run tests that involve contract-to-contract and contract-to-bank interactions.

In this section, we will take a step-by-step approach in writing a test with cw-multi-test, while explaining some important concepts along the way.

To begin, we need a sample contract, such as the [cw-template](https://github.com/InterWasm/cw-template/blob/main/src/contract.rs), which is a simple boilerplate contract with two functions: **Increment** and **Reset**.

We start by creating a new test file with the following imports:

```rust
use cosmwasm_std::testing::{mock_env, MockApi, MockQuerier, MockStorage, MOCK_CONTRACT_ADDR};
use cw_multi_test::{App, BankKeeper, Contract, ContractWrapper};
```

The above imports provide us with a wide range of tools for creating a test. The first import to consider is App, which will serve as the simulated blockchain environment in which our tests will be run.

### App

The main entry point to the system is called **App**, which represents a blockchain application. It keeps track of the block height and time, which you can modify to simulate multiple blocks. You can use **app.update_block(next_block)** to increment the timestamp by 5s and height by 1 (simulating a new block), or you can write any other mutator to advance it further.

The App provides the **App.execute** entry point that allows you to execute any **CosmosMsg** message and wraps it as an atomic transaction. If **execute** returns success, then the state will be committed. It returns the data and a list of events on successful execution or an **Err(String)** in case of an error. There are some helper methods associated with the **Executor** trait that create the **CosmosMsg** for you, offering a less verbose API. The **instantiate_contract**, **execute_contract**, and **send_tokens** methods are provided for your convenience in writing tests. Each of these methods executes one **CosmosMsg** message atomically as if it was submitted by a user. If you want to run multiple messages together and revert all state if any fail, you can also use the **execute_multi** method.

The other key entry point to **App** is the **Querier** interface that it implements. In particular, you
can use **App.wrap()** to get a **QuerierWrapper**, which provides all kinds of nice APIs to query the
blockchain, like **all_balances** and **query_wasm_smart**. Putting this together, you have one **Storage** wrapped
into an application, where you can execute contracts and bank, query them easily, and update the current
**BlockInfo**, in an API that is not very verbose or cumbersome. Under the hood, it will process all messages
returned from contracts, move "bank" tokens, and call into other contracts.

The other important aspect of **App** is the **Querier** interface that it implements. You can use the **App.wrap()** method to obtain a **QuerierWrapper**, which provides various convenient APIs for querying the blockchain, such as **all_balances** and **query_wasm_smart**. This allows you to easily access the **Storage** and execute contracts, banks, and queries. It also enables you to update the current **BlockInfo** in an API that is straightforward and user-friendly. Internally, it handles all messages returned from contracts, transfers "bank" tokens, and invokes other contracts.

You can create an **App** for use in your test code as follows:

```rust
fn mock_app() -> App {
    let env = mock_env();
    let api = Box::new(MockApi::default());
    let bank = BankKeeper::new();

    App::new(api, env.block, bank, Box::new(MockStorage::new()))
}
```

### Mocking contracts

Mocking your contracts is one of the mantras of multi-testing, but it also presents one of the main obstacles to a successful test. To begin with, any contract you aim to test must be either mocked or wrapped. The **cw-multi-test** offers a **ContractWrapper** that enables you to encapsulate the logical components of your contract, such as instantiation, execution, and queries, and deploy it to a mocked network.

Mocking all your contracts and then testing each one can be accomplished in a scripting style, but for the sake of maintainability, it is recommended to define all your wrapped contracts as functions so that you can reuse them:

```rust
use crate::contract::{execute, instantiate, query, reply};


pub fn contract_stablecoin_exchanger() -> Box<dyn Contract<Empty>>{
    let contract = ContractWrapper::new_with_empty(
        execute,
        instantiate,
        query,
    ).with_reply(reply);
    Box::new(contract)
}
```

The above is a more complex example, but let's break it down quickly. We import the **execute**, **instantiate**, **Query**, and **Reply** functions, which are used at runtime by the contract, and then create our wrapper for use in the tests.



::alert{variant="info"}
To reply or not to reply: That is the question.

Depending on the structure of your contract, when creating a **ContractWrapper**, you may not need **with_reply** if your contract does not have an implemented **Reply** function.
#title
Info
::

After mocking a contract, two more steps will follow: storing the code and then setting up a contract from the code object. You will notice that this is the exact same process for deploying to a testnet or mainnet chain. In unit tests, you work with a mocked_env, using **mock_dependencies** and passing in **mock_info**.

### Storing and instantiating a contract:

Before a contract can be instantiated in a **cw-multi-test** environment, it first has to be stored. Once stored, the contract can be instantiated using its associated **code_id**.

```rust
let contract_code_id = router.store_code(contract_stablecoin_exchanger());
```

Instantiating from the new code object:

```rust
let mocked_contract_addr = router
        .instantiate_contract(contract_code_id, owner.clone(), &msg, &[], "super-contract", None)
        .unwrap();
```

All of the above gives you one mocked contract. As you start testing, you may encounter errors like:

+ No ContractData
+ Contract <**contract**> does not exist

If you encounter any of these, there's a good chance you're missing a mock. In the **cw-multi-test** environment, everything that can be considered a contract, or anything that your contract interacts with, needs to be mocked out. This includes your own simple utility contract and any services it interacts with, even if you don't intend to test it immediately.

Look at your contract and see if you are passing any dummy contract addresses, as this is the most likely cause. If you find any, you must: mock it out using the method described above, instantiate it using the method described above, capture its address, and pass that instead of a dummy one. Now, let's move on to the next major issue: mocking other services.

::alert{variant="info"}
An address must be in lowercase alphanumeric form to be considered valid. For example, "**owner**" is valid, but "**OWNER**" is not.
#title
Info
::

### Putting it all together

```rust
use cosmwasm_std::testing::{mock_env, MockApi, MockQuerier, MockStorage, MOCK_CONTRACT_ADDR};
use cw_multi_test::{App, BankKeeper, Contract, ContractWrapper};
use crate::contract::{execute, instantiate, query, reply};
use crate::msg::{InstantiateMsg, QueryMsg}

fn mock_app() -> App {
    let env = mock_env();
    let api = Box::new(MockApi::default());
    let bank = BankKeeper::new();

    App::new(api, env.block, bank, Box::new(MockStorage::new()))
}

pub fn contract_counter() -> Box<dyn Contract<Empty>>{
    let contract = ContractWrapper::new_with_empty(
        execute,
        instantiate,
        query,
    );
    Box::new(contract)
}

pub fn counter_instantiate_msg(count: Uint128) -> InstantiateMsg {
    InstantiateMsg {
        count: count
    }
}

#[test]
fn counter_contract_multi_test() {
    // Create the owner account
    let owner = Addr::unchecked("owner");
    let mut router = mock_app();

    let counter_contract_code_id = router.store_code(contract_counter());
    // Setup the counter contract with an initial count of zero
    let init_msg = InstantiateMsg {
        count: Uint128::zero()
    }
    // Instantiate the counter contract using its newly stored code id
    let mocked_contract_addr = router
        .instantiate_contract(counter_contract_code_id, owner.clone(), &init_msg, &[], "counter", None)
        .unwrap();

    // We can now start executing actions on the contract and querying it as needed
    let msg = ExecuteMsg::Increment {}
    // Increment the counter by executing the prepared msg above on the previously setup contract
    let _ = router.execute_contract(
            owner.clone(),
            mocked_contract_addr.clone(),
            &msg,
            &[],
        )
        .unwrap();
    // Query the contract to verify the counter was incremented
    let config_msg =  QueryMsg::Count{};
    let count_response: CountResponse = router
        .wrap()
        .query_wasm_smart(mocked_contract_addr.clone(), &config_msg)
        .unwrap();
    asserteq!(count_response.count, 1)

    // Now let's reset the counter with the other ExecuteMsg
    let msg = ExecuteMsg::Reset {}
    let _ = router.execute_contract(
            owner.clone(),
            mocked_contract_addr.clone(),
            &msg,
            &[],
        )
        .unwrap();

    // And again use the available contract query to verify the result
    // Query the contract to verify the counter was incremented
    let config_msg =  QueryMsg::Count{};
    let count_response: CountResponse = router
        .wrap()
        .query_wasm_smart(mocked_contract_addr.clone(), &config_msg)
        .unwrap();
    asserteq!(count_response.count, 0)
}

```

#### Mocking 3rd party contracts

If you have read the above section, you should have a general understanding of the amount of work required to mock out your contracts. As you continue to mock and test, you may come across a roadblock when you realize that your contracts interact with Terraswap, Anchor, or some other service in the IBC. But don't worry, it's not a big problem.

You may start trying to mock one of these services in the same way as described above, only to realize that you need access to the code. The contract code is what you import to obtain **execute**, **instantiate**, and **Query**. However, you may then notice that protocols don't include their contract code in their Rust packages; they only include what you need to interact with them, such as messages and some helpers.

However, all hope is not lost. You can still make progress by trying to create a thin mock of the service you interact with. The process is similar to mocking your contracts (as described above), except you will need to implement all the functionality. This task is made easier because you can create a smaller **ExecuteMsg** with only the function you use, or a mock **Query** handler with only the queries you need. Here is an example of our mock for a third-party contract:

```rust
pub fn contract_ping_pong_mock() -> Box<dyn Contract<Empty>> {
    let contract = ContractWrapper::new(
        |deps, _, info, msg: MockExecuteMsg| -> StdResult<Response> {
            match msg {
                MockExecuteMsg::Receive(Cw20ReceiveMsg {
                    sender: _,
                    amount: _,
                    msg,
                }) => {
                    let received: PingMsg = from_binary(&msg)?;
                    Ok(Response::new()
                        .add_attribute("action", "pong")
                        .set_data(to_binary(&received.payload)?))
                }
                }})}

        |_, _, msg: MockQueryMsg| -> StdResult<Binary> {
            match msg {
                MockQueryMsg::Pair {} => Ok(to_binary(&mock_pair_info())?),

```

When defining your own mocked contract, you have a lot of flexibility. You can omit dependencies, environment, and information variables by using _ if they are not used, and you can return any desired responses for a given **ExecuteMsg** or **Query**. The challenge then becomes how to mock all these services.