---
objectID: developers|cosm_wasm|smart-contracts|state|complex-state
title: Complex State
description: The storage mechanism used by the CosmWasm smart contract system to persist data across multiple blockchain transactions
parentSection: State
---

# Complex State and Maps

In more complex solutions, additional information might need to be stored. Serializing extensive JSON data structures is an option, where data can be retrieved via key-value pairs. In the context of CW20, the association of addresses to their CW20 balance is accomplished through a `Map` data structure:

```rust
pub const BALANCES: Map<&Addr, Uint128> = Map::new("balance");
```

The code for this can be found [here](https://github.com/CosmWasm/cw-plus/blob/main/contracts/cw20-base/src/state.rs#L35).

The following shows an example of how you can interact with the BALANCES map value [here](https://github.com/CosmWasm/cw-plus/blob/main/contracts/cw20-base/src/contract.rs#L250-L258). The relevant code snippet is:

```rust
let rcpt_addr = deps.api.addr_validate(&recipient)?;
BALANCES.update(
   deps.storage,
   &info.sender,
   |balance: Option<Uint128>| -> StdResult<_> {
      Ok(balance.unwrap_or_default().checked_sub(amount)?)
   },
)?;
```

There's a lot happening here, so let's break it down:

1. `deps.storage` is provided as an input. This is from the contract context. `deps` is similar to the `ctx` you may have encountered in the Cosmos SDK.
2. `&rcpt_addr` is a borrowed reference to the validated recipient address. It has been verified and is valid, or the `let` statement would have raised an error. This represents the key in the key/value pair.
3. The third statement is an anonymous function (lambda) that returns `StdResult` and performs some computation based on the current value of `balance`. `balance` represents the value in the key/value pair, and `&rcpt_addr` is the key.

For more advanced usage, including indexing and additional features, refer to:

- [Indexes in CosmWasm](https://docs.cosmwasm.com/tutorials/storage/indexes)
- [Advanced State Modeling in CosmWasm](https://docs.cosmwasm.com/tutorials/storage/state-modeling)
- [How CW Storage Works](https://docs.cosmwasm.com/tutorials/storage/key-value-store)
