---
sidebar_position: 4
---

# Example Use Cases

dApps can choose to allocate the funds they accrue in whatever way is most beneficial to their ecosystem. For instance, they can redistribute rewards to their governance token holders, fund core development efforts, cover users’ gas fees, seed liquidity pools, contribute to a community DAO, open project bounties, and much more.

## Governance Rewards

A recent trend has dApps issuing governance tokens to incentivize and bootstrap early communities. Many of these tokens have risen to multi-billion dollar valuations despite not having any clear mechanism for value capture for fees or revenues. Some of these tokens merely grant voting rights, but have still soared in value based on speculation of future utility or potential rights to cash flows.

In the Archway model, dApp developers can redistribute their share of network rewards directly to their governance token holders, subject to local securities laws. The Archway model turns standard governance tokens into productive, yield-generating assets.

While individual dApps, such as SushiSwap have implemented similar functionality, Archway makes it possible to implement and manage governance rewards at the protocol level itself. A developer can opt in and automatically redirect funds earned by the dApp, including gas rebates, inflation rewards, and even smart contract fees, straight to governance token holders.


## Pay the Team

Rewards offered by Archway could help developers bootstrap new projects without having to dedicate excessive time and focus to fundraising. The process of raising early capital can be difficult for individual dApps. 

Teams resort to private insider sales that skew early token distribution or are forced to rely on foundation grant programs. Rather than prioritizing the best technology and ecosystem for their dApp, developers often choose technology based on available grants and get locked into a single platform.

Even after a dApp is launched, generating sufficient cash flows to support the team and cover ongoing development costs remains a struggle as the blockchain industry is still nascent and winning business models have yet to materialize.

The model introduced by Archway can counter some of these early financial pressures by allocating dApp rewards directly to core development teams. This funding source could serve as a supplement to help sustain projects and allow the team to focus on what really matters — shipping the best possible product, growing their user base, and supporting the community.

## Subsidize Gas Payments

Gas payments remain one of the critical barriers to delivering a simple, intuitive user experience for dApps. Archway supports gasless transactions through the use of pool accounts. A dApp can pull funds from a common pool to sponsor gas payments and completely abstract away that complexity and friction for their end users.

To fund the balance of the pool account, a developer can use the fees and rewards generated by the dApp itself. In effect, the dApp gets a 50% discount on each transaction from gas rebates along with inflation rewards and contract fees that are potentially available as a bonus. 

By recycling these funds, dApps have the option to dramatically reduce or eliminate the gas burden for end users, leading to a smoother onboarding process and stronger retention over time.

## Fund a Decentralized Autonomous Organization (DAO)

Rewards generated by a dApp can be contributed to a community-owned DAO that is focused on coordinating and funding critical work for its ecosystem. These rewards can be continuously deposited to the DAO treasury that allows members to collectively manage and deploy the assets based on specific needs of the project.

This DAO could then vote to fund core development teams, sponsor events and hackathons, commission code audits, open bug bounties, launch education programs, subsidize third-party integrations, and so on. Anything and everything that could potentially benefit and impact the ecosystem.

The DAO itself can exist and operate as a set of smart contracts on top of Archway, so the entire process is automated and transparent throughout initial rewards collection, voting, grants distribution, and so on.

Giving members collective control over a recurring funding source helps actively engage the dApp’s community and contributes toward progressively decentralizing the project itself.

## Boost Liquidity Mining Programs

DeFi projects could use the funds earned from Archway to boost liquidity mining rewards, a vital strategy for attracting new users and encouraging active participation.   

For instance, a decentralized exchange (DEX) can distribute Archway rewards on top of the fees already paid to their liquidity providers (LPs), while a lending platform allows users to earn supplemental rewards for depositing and borrowing assets.

Although similar matching and subsidy programs have been run elsewhere as temporary months-long promotions, the steady drip of Archway rewards creates unique opportunities to serve as a continual source for boosted incentives.

## Reduce DEX Fees

On networks such as Ethereum, DEX users incur two sets of fees: a network fee and a swap fee. The network fee incentivizes miners to operate nodes and the swap fee incentivizes liquidity providers (LPs) to provide liquidity to the DEX.

By using Archway, DEXs could effectively eliminate one of these fees. Instead, the DEX could redistribute the earned gas rebates back to the LPs for providing liquidity to dramatically lower total transaction costs on automatic swaps and improve the user experience.



