---
objectID: developers|rewards|rewards-reference
title: Rewards reference
description: List of the availabe queries and commands related to the rewards system
parentSection: Developers
parentSectionPath: /developers
---

# Rewards Reference

This guide is a list of the availabe queries and commands related to the rewards system. The rewards module is a strong value proposition for the Archway network, as it ensures that developers can build sustainable and resilient projects.

## Rewards Queries

You can use the [developer tools](/developers/developer-tools/introduction) to query rewards information, for example by launching the following commands:

`archwayd query rewards block-rewards-tracking [flags]` - Query rewards tracking data for the current block height

`archwayd query rewards contract-metadata [contract-address] [flags]` - Query contract metadata (contract rewards parameters)

`archwayd query rewards estimate-fees [gas-limit] [flags]` - Query transaction fees estimation for a given gas limit

`archwayd query rewards outstanding-rewards [rewards-address] [flags]`- Query current credited rewards for a given address (the address set in contract(s) metadata rewards_address field)

`archwayd query rewards params [flags]` - Query module parameters

`archwayd query rewards pool [flags]` - Query the undistributed rewards pool (ready for withdrawal) and the treasury pool funds

`archwayd query rewards rewards-records [rewards-address] [flags]` - Query rewards records stored for a given address (the address set in contract(s) metadata rewards_address field) with pagination

## Transaction Commands

Rewards are only distributed to the rewards receiver address, which can be a contract or a user address. The contract owner can choose to update the receiver address by updating the contract's metadata, for example with:

`archwayd tx rewards set-contract-metadata [contract-address] [flags]` - Create / modify contract metadata (contract rewards parameters)

`archwayd tx rewards withdraw-rewards [flags]` - Withdraw current credited rewards for the transaction sender. 

The last command requires a few mandatory flags, as you would need to know the list of rewards to pull from. For this reason, you need to:
- Either set the **record-ids** or **records-limit** flag. 
- Set the **from** flag must be set to the signer of the transaction, which must also act as a rewards address on one or more contracts. 

Here's an example of a working command:

```
archwayd tx rewards withdraw-rewards --chain-id "constantine-3" --node "https://rpc.constantine.archway.tech:443" --records-limit 100 --from mywallet --gas auto --gas-prices 0.05aconst --gas-adjustment 1.4 --broadcast-mode sync --output json -y
```
## Flags

Make sure to send queries and transactions to a node connected to the right network. You can use the following flags to do it:
- **node** - Endpoint of the node to be connected to. For Constantine, you can use: **--node https://rpc.constantine-1.archway.tech:443**
- **chain-id** - The Archway Chain ID that the contract is on (listed [here](/resources/networks)). For Constantine, you can use **--chain-id constantine-3**.
