---
objectID: developers_resources-boilerplate
title: Boilerplate applications
description: A collection of boilerplate applications designed to kickstart your projects.
parentSection: Developers
parentSectionPath: /developers
---

# Boilerplate applications

This page will list a curated collection of boilerplate applications designed to kickstart your projects. These solutions should provide a solid foundation for building applications with efficiency and best practices in mind and bring your ideas to life faster.

## Cosmos kit and next.js

[Cosmos Kit](https://cosmology.zone/products/cosmos-kit) is a wallet adapter for developers to build apps that quickly and easily interact with Cosmos blockchains and wallets and [Next.js](https://nextjs.org) enables you to create full-stack Web applications by extending the latest React features.

The [cosmos-kit-nextjs14](https://github.com/cosmology-tech/create-cosmos-app) generator brings both of these apps together into one boilerplate solution to streamline the creation of your project. This boilerplate is ideal for those looking to save time and effort in the early stages of development.

You can find a live demo from the latest build [here](https://cosmos-kit.vercel.app). View the following [example](https://github.com/cosmology-tech/cosmos-kit/tree/main/packages/example) to get started.


## TS codegen

[TS Codegen](https://cosmology.zone/products/ts-codegen) is a tool for developers to generate TypeScript client libraries for interacting with their smart contracts. You can find an overview of the solution [here](https://cosmology.zone/products/ts-codegen).The features include:

- Automate the conversion process from smart contracts to TypeScript
- Generate modular and reusable TypeScript code for scalable development
- Generate comprehensive types for easy exploration and interaction with contracts by UI and frontend developers
- Simplify the interaction with CosmWasm smart contracts through intuitive TypeScript classes
- Empower developers with a flexible plugin architecture for tailored TypeScript generation

## Chain registry

[Chain Registry](https://cosmology.zone/products/chain-registry) is a tool designed to provide a unified store of chain, asset, and IBC channel information. This tool offers several key features that enhance interoperability and integration within the Cosmos ecosystem:

### Key Features:
- **Automate Data Integration:** Simplifies the process of incorporating token symbols, logos, and IBC denominations into your application by automating data retrieval.
- **Unified Data Resource:** Serves as an all-in-one repository for vital chain-related information, ensuring consistency and ease of access.
- **Enhanced Interoperability:** Facilitates smooth interactions with IBC transfer paths, promoting seamless cross-chain transactions.
- **Community-Driven Collaboration:** Supports a collaborative environment where the Cosmos community can contribute and maintain comprehensive ecosystem information.
- **Accelerated Integration:** Expedites the integration of various blockchains into applications, leveraging standardized chain information.

## Interchain UI

[Interchain UI](https://cosmology.zone/products/interchain-ui) is a versatile UI toolkit designed to simplify the development of decentralized applications (dapps) across various frameworks. This toolkit supports diverse frameworks and enables custom theme creation, making it an essential tool for developers aiming to build consistent and engaging user interfaces for their applications.

### Key Features:
- **Cross-Framework Compilation:** Write your UI components once and deploy them across multiple frameworks, including VueJS, React, Angular, Svelte, SolidJS, and Web Components.
- **Responsive and Mobile-Friendly:** Ensure a seamless user experience on all devices with mobile-optimized UI components.
- **Unified User Interface Design:** Create consistent and engaging user experiences throughout your application.
- **Pre-built Components for Swaps:** Instantly enable token swaps with ready-to-use components.
- **Intuitive Governance UI:** Facilitate governance participation with clear and effective UI components.
- **User-Friendly NFT Interfaces:** Simplify NFT interactions with integrated, easy-to-use UI components.

For more detailed instructions and practical examples, visit the [Interchain UI documentation](https://cosmology.zone/products/interchain-ui) and explore the available components to kickstart your development.