---
objectID: developers|cosm_wasm|architecture|multi-chain-contracts
title: What are Multi-Chain Contracts
description: Multi-Chain Contracts
parentSection: Architecture
---

# What are Multi-Chain Contracts?
CosmWasm is designed and built from the ground up to be a multi-chain solution for smart contracts. As it comes from the Cosmos ecosystem, it is designed for networks of blockchains, rather than siloed chains. But what exactly do we mean by multi-chain?

## Different Chain, Same Contract
Since we make a few requirements of the host application, it is easy for any Cosmos SDK app to embed the wasm module and customize the permissions or fees as they wish. All code is designed to be agnostic to the details of the underlying chain, so just by writing a CosmWasm contract, you will soon be able to run on different chains on the Cosmos ecosystem.

Archway empowers you by allowing you to leverage its rewards module to programmatically receive rewards and monetize your smart contracts

## Inter Blockchain Contracts
CosmWasm contracts leverage the Inter-Blockchain Communication protocol (IBC), making it possible to handle authentication and data transport between blockchains. As IBC  provides a permissionless way for relaying data packets between blockchains, with CosmWasm you can write code on one chain that can execute a transaction on another chain. That's powerful!

To accomplish this, CosmWasm fully embraces the actor model, so that the code is designed around using IBC.  Therefore in CosmWasm messages are "fire-and-forget": you won't need to await a promise and worry about race conditions and reentrancy attacks. By adding IBC primitives to CosmWasm's libraries, we can achieve the full potential of inter-chain messaging and execution.

## Easy to Integrate
CosmWasm has been designed to be more of a library than a framework, minimizing required APIs and allowing you to opt-in to most of the code. You can leverage CosmWasm without necessarily being dependent on it.

This has two big benefits:

It makes it easier to add support for multiple languages to write contracts in, for example, AssemblyScript or Go. So that you won't need to necessarily learn Rust.

Since it makes limited demands on the host system, it can be embedded into other frameworks, not just the Cosmos SDK. The core runtime logic `cosmwasm-vm` is in Rust, and `wasmvm` provides a generic Go binding to it.
CosmWasm is designed to be adaptable to different blockchains and coding languages. This makes it a solid base to build on top of, as all your smart contracts and dApps can be migrated to another chain.