# Names and Addresses
Blockchains use addresses to identify external actors via a hash of a public key, and ones "smart contracts" have been extending this feature as well.

On-chain addresses are represented by the use of a concise, immutable binary format, typically 20 or 32 bytes long, often derived from a hashing function. However, there are many human-readable representations of these binary addresses, which are shown to clients.

As an example, you can look at how the following addresses look like:
[Bech32](https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Bech32) `bc1qc7slrfxkknqcq2jevvvkdgvrt8080852dfjewde450xdlk4ugp7szw5tk9` 
[checksummed hex](https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/blob/master/EIPS/eip-55.md) `0x5aAeb6053F3E94C9b9A09f33669435E7Ef1BeAed`,

## Addr
Addresses in Cosmos SDK are 20-character long strings and contain security checks - such as chain-prefix in Bech32, checksums in Bech32, and checksummed hex (EIP55). Since CosmWasm is an extension of Cosmos SDK, it follows the same address rules; wallets, smart contracts, and modules have an identifier address with a defined prefix. cosmos1... for gaia, wasm1... for CosmWasm enabled chains.

For passing address to contracts, you can pass it as a string and then validate the input to an: `Addr`. Addr is just a wrapper around a plain string that provides useful helper functions such as string validation to an address.

There is also a more rare representation of an address, called Canonical Addresses, which is the binary representation used internally in the blockchain. This is the representation that can be used for all storage lookups and its format can be converted into multiple types of string addresses.

To better understand  Canonical Addresses, let's examine the example of of Bitcoin moving from Base58 to Bech32 encoding along with SegWit. Once the encoding changes, `message.signer` would lose access to his own account. Canonical Addresses provide us with a stable identifier to work with.


## Naming
We can consider names as a form of Address albeit one that requires a contract query (with storage access) to resolve. It cannot be resolved simply by a call to a pure function. 
You can have a deeper understanding by looking at Arch ID