# Querying Contract State
You can view the state of a contract either as an external client by using the cli, or while executing another contract. In this section we will explore the two types of queries: raw and custom. We will also look at the semantics of querying via an external client and as an internal client (another contract). We will pay special attention not only to how it works practically but also to the design and security issues of executing queries from one contract to another.

## Raw Queries
The simplest query to implement is just raw read access to the key-value store. If the caller (either an external client or another contract) passes in the raw binary key that is used in the contract's storage, we can easily return the raw binary value. The benefit of this approach is that it is easy to implement and universal. The downside is that it requires knowledge of the exact contract being executed, as it expect the caller to know the implementation of the contract storage

As Raw Queries are implemented inside the `wasmd` runtime, they circumvents the VM. As a consequence, it requires no support from the CosmWasm contract and all contract state is visible. The `query_raw` function is exposed to all callers, both external and internal ones.

## Custom Queries
As it is often not desirable to couple tightly to implementation details, it is preferrable depending on an interface instead. For example, we can define a standard for "CW20" `ExecuteMsg` for calling the contract, and we can define such a standard for a `QueryMsg`too. For example, query balance by address, query allowance via granter + grantee, query token info (ticker, decimals, etc). By defining a standard interface, we allow many implementations, including complex contracts, where the "CW20" interface is only a small subset of their functionality.

To enable custom queries, we allow each contract to expose a query function, that can access its data store in read-only mode. This allows loading any data and even performing calculations on it. This method is exposed as `query_custom` to all callers, both external and internal. As the data format (both for query and response) is anything the contract desires, it should be documented in the public schema, along with `ExecuteMsg` and `InitMsg`.

Note that executing a contract may consume an unbounded amount of gas. Whereas `query_raw` will read one key and has a small, mostly fixed cost, with `query_custom` we need to enforce a gas limit. As the method to enforce a gas limit is done differently for external and internal calls, we will get into details below.

## External Queries
External queries are the typical way all web and cli clients work with the blockchain. They call Tendermint RPC, which calls into abci_query in the Cosmos SDK, which delegates down to the module to handle it. To avoid attack vectors such as uploading a wasm contract with an infinite loop and then using that to DoS any public RPC node that exposes querying,  we need to define some fixed gas limit for all query_custom transactions called externally. This will not charge a fee but is used to limit abuse.

Anyways, it is quite difficult to define a standard value for the gas limit, as a publicly exposed node would probably set a small gas limit, while an archive node to perform complex queries would prefer another value. Therefore, a gas limit for all `query_custom calls` can be defined in an app-specific configuration file, which can be then  customized by each node operator, with a sensible default limit. This will allow public nodes to protect themselves from complex queries, while still allowing optional queries to perform a large aggregation over all contract data in specially-configured nodes.

Note that the `abci_query call` never reads the current "in-progress" state of the modules, but uses a read-only snapshot of the state after the last committed block.

## Internal Queries
While many interactions between contracts can easily be modeled by sending messages, there are some cases where we would like to synchronously query other modules, without altering their state. For example, if you wanted to resolve a name to a `Address`, or if you wanted to check the status of some account before enabling an action. Even though you could model this as a series of messages, that would be quite complex and create hassles on implementing simple use-cases.

Note that that design would also violates one of the basic principles of the Actor Model, as each contract should have exclusive access to its own internal state. Note that both `query_raw` and `query_custom` fail in this regard. Far from just being a theoretical issue, this may lead to concurrency and reentrancy issues if not handled correctly. As there is no need to push such safety-critical reasoning into the laps of the contract developers, the security guarantees can be embedded in the framework itself.

As such, we provide the `Querier` with read-only access to the state snapshot right before the execution of the current CosmWasm message. Since we take a snapshot and both the executing contract and the queried contract have read-only access to the data before the contract execution, this is still safe with Rust's borrowing rules. The current contract only writes to a cache, which is flushed afterward on success.


Keep in mind tht all queries are performed as part of a transaction, which already has a strongly enforced gas limit. All storage reads and data processing performed as part of a query are deducted from the same gas meter as the rest of the transaction and thus limit processing time.