---
objectID: developers|cosm_wasm|smart-contracts|events
title: Events
description: Events are objects that contain information about the execution of the application
parentSection: CosmWasm
parentSectionPath: /developers/cosmwasm-documentation/introduction
---

# Events

**Result<Response, ContractError>** is the typical return type of entry point functions, with **Response** serving as a wrapper for <a href="https://docs.cosmos.network/main/core/events.html" target="_blank">Events</a> in the Cosmos SDK.

The **Response** type should be returned as the successful result of a contract entry point, such as **instantiate** or **execute**. You can declare it as mutable and add to it in the function body, but a more common pattern is to construct it at the end and return it if all computations have been successful. In the examples that follow, Response is wrapped by **Ok** since it is being returned as part of a function that returns the **Result** type, with **Response** representing the `Right` or success branch.

The **Query** entry point is an exception, as it will return **StdResult<Binary>** due to the Cosmos SDK interface.

You can review the source code for the Response struct <a href="https://github.com/CosmWasm/cosmwasm/blob/main/packages/std/src/results/response.rs#L65" target="_blank">here</a>.

The most basic use of **Response** is as follows:

```rust
Ok(Response::default ())
```

This is a typical scenario in <a href="https://github.com/CosmWasm/cw-plus/blob/main/contracts/cw20-base/src/contract.rs#L156" target="_blank">instantiate functions</a> when no message is returned to the client.

However, in most cases of handling **execute**, a **Response** should be returned:

```rust
let res = Response::new()
.add_attribute("action", "transfer")
.add_attribute("from", info.sender)
.add_attribute("to", recipient)
.add_attribute("amount", amount);
Ok(res)
```

This code snippet involves several additional steps, so let's analyze it further. You can access the source code for this example by clicking <a href="https://github.com/CosmWasm/cw-plus/blob/main/contracts/cw20-base/src/contract.rs#L239" target="_blank">here</a>.

1. A new **Response** is created
2. Several key/value pairs are added to it
3. The **Response** is returned wrapped in a **Result** type using **Ok**

When invoking your contract through the command-line interface (CLI), you will observe them logged as a part of the "raw_log" response, along with other SDK events.

Rather than solely appending attributes, **add_event** can be employed to add an unencapsulated event that can be interacted with by other clients or contracts.
