---
objectID: developers|cosm_wasm|getting-started|introduction
title: Introduction
description: Getting started with CosmWasm development
parentSection: CosmWasm
parentSectionPath: /developers/cosmwasm-documentation/introduction
---

# Getting started

The getting started section offers a tour of the fundamental aspects of CosmWasm Smart Contracts. Although a basic understanding of Rust would be helpful, the content is intended for learners of all levels, regardless of their experience. The aim is to provide easy-to-follow instructions and give first-time users hands-on experience by walking them through a step-by-step guide that covers the following topics:

- Setting up environment
- Deploying a smart contract to the Archway blockchain
- Executing smart contract functions via the CLI
- Modifying an existing contract

If you prefer to begin your journey by gaining insight into the underlying mechanics of CosmWasm, feel free to jump directly to the [Architecture](/developers/cosmwasm-documentation/architecture/multi-chain-contracts) section for a brief overview. Afterward, you can return to this section to continue your exploration.

You may have noticed that developing smart contracts is not within the scope of this section. The Getting Started section has been intentionally designed to be as easy to follow as possible, avoiding the potential complications associated with the intricacies of smart contract development, which will be addressed in other sections.

## Sections

[Installing Prerequisites](/developers/cosmwasm-documentation/getting-started/installing-prerequisites) will guide you through setting up the required software tooling for CosmWasm.

[Setting up Environment](/developers/cosmwasm-documentation/getting-started/setting-up-environment) will demonstrate how to set up the client environment and interact with the faucet.

[Downloading and Compiling a Contract](/developers/cosmwasm-documentation/getting-started/compile-contract) illustrates the process of downloading and compiling smart contract code into wasm bytecode.

[Testing](05-interact-with-contract.md) will show you how to deploy a contract to the testnet, instantiate it and execute smart contract functions.

[Deployment and Interaction](05-interact-with-contract.md) will show you how to deploy a contract to the testnet, instantiate it and execute smart contract functions.

[Next Steps](06-next-steps.md) is the last part of the tutorial. It wraps up the Getting Started section and points you in the direction of further learning.