---
objectID: developers|cosm_wasm|getting-started|setting-up-environment
title: Setting up environment
description: Setting up your CosmWasm development environment for connecting with the Archway network
parentSection: CosmWasm
parentSectionPath: /developers/cosmwasm-documentation/introduction
---

# Setting up environment

You can choose to either set up a local testnet or connect to an existing network. For easy testing, the Archway **Constantine** testnet is available for deploying and running your contracts.

To set up a local testnet, see [Running a Local Testnet](/validators/becoming-a-validator/running-a-local-testnet). For details on the Archway **Constantine** testnet, see the [Networks](/resources/networks#constantine-supported-testnet) page.

The **Constantine** testnet utilizes the **aconst** native token, which is required for paying transaction fees. To obtain these free testnet tokens, see the [Requesting Testnet Tokens](/developers/guides/faucet) page.

## Install prerequisites

We have put together an [Installation](/developers/getting-started/install) guide to help you set up all the necessary software tooling for developing CosmWasm smart contracts on the Archway network.

You can access the **Constantine** testnet through the following methods:
- Install **archwayd** and interact with the network via the CLI. For an overview of **archwayd**, see [Archwayd CLI](/developers/developer-tools/daemon)
- Use the [Archway Developer CLI](/developers/developer-tools/developer-cli) npm package, which acts as a wrapper around rustc, cargo, archwayd and cosmwasm-rust-optimizer. 
- Building a Javascript app using [arch3.js](/developers/developer-tools/arch3js/introduction) which functions as a wrapper for the CosmosJS library.

## Set up your IDE
A reliable IDE is essential for developing smart contracts using Rust. <a href="https://code.visualstudio.com" target="_blank">Visual Studio Code (VSCode)</a> is a highly popular IDE for software development. For more information on setting up VSCode for CosmWasm development, see the [Integrated Development Environment Setup guide](/developers/getting-started/ide-setup).

## Setting up wallets

To execute transactions using **archwayd** and the **Archway Developer CLI**, you need to set up an Archway account. The [Project Setup](/developers/getting-started/setup) guide will walk you through creating an account using the **Archway Developer CLI**.
