---
objectID: developers_cosm_wasm_getting-started_compile-contract
title: Compile contract
description: Instructions for compiling and optimizing CosmWasm smart contracts
parentSection: CosmWasm
parentSectionPath: /developers/cosmwasm-documentation/introduction
---

# Compiling a contract

In this section, we will download the code for a sample contract and compile it into a wasm binary executable.

## Prerequisites

Please refer to the [Setting up environment](/developers/cosmwasm-documentation/getting-started/setting-up-environment) guide to install the required dependencies before proceeding.

## Download contract

Begin by downloading the <a href="https://github.com/InterWasm/cw-contracts" target="_blank">cw-contracts</a> repository. You will be compiling the **nameservice** contract.

Clone the repository:

```shell
git clone https://github.com/InterWasm/cw-contracts
cd cw-contracts
git checkout main
cd contracts/nameservice
```

## Compile contract

### Compile using cargo

Execute the following command to compile the contract:

```shell
cargo wasm
```

Upon compilation, the file `target/wasm32-unknown-unknown/release/cw_nameservice.wasm` should be generated. The file size is approximately 1.9 MB, indicating that it is a release build but has not yet been stripped of all unnecessary code. To store the contract on-chain, optimization is required. See the [Optimized compilation](#optimized-compilation) section below for instructions on optimizing a contract.

### Compile using archway developer cli

Execute the following command to compile the contract:

```shell
archway build
```

This process also generates an unoptimized version of the contract, which will need to be [Optimized](#optimized-compilation) before being stored on-chain.

## Optimized compilation

To reduce gas costs, the binary size should be as small as possible. This will lead to less costly deployment and lower fees for each interaction. Fortunately, there are tools available to assist with this. These optimization tools produce reproducible builds of CosmWasm smart contracts. This means that third parties can verify that the contract indeed contains the claimed code.

### Optimize using archway developer cli

To build an optimized wasm binary for storage on the blockchain, use the **--optimize** flag. The Archway Developer CLI uses the **rust-optimizer** in the background:

```shell
archway build --optimize
```

### Optimize using cargo

The following command should give an optimized contract that can be stored on chain:

```shell
RUSTFLAGS='-C link-arg=-s' cargo wasm
```

### Optimize using rust-optimizer

::alert{variant="info"}
You will need [Docker](https://www.docker.com) installed in order to run **rust-optimizer**.
#title
Info
::

Navigate to the project root and run the following command:

```shell
docker run --rm -v "$(pwd)":/code \
  --mount type=volume,source="$(basename "$(pwd)")_cache",target=/code/target \
  --mount type=volume,source=registry_cache,target=/usr/local/cargo/registry \
  cosmwasm/rust-optimizer:0.12.12
```

This command will optimize the **.wasm** file and generate an optimized **.wasm** file in the **artifacts** directory.