---
objectID: developers|cosm_wasm|getting-started|setting-up-environment
title: Setting up environment
description: Setting up your CosmWasm development environment for connecting with the Archway network
parentSection: CosmWasm
parentSectionPath: /developers/cosmwasm-documentation/introduction
---

# Setting up environment

You can choose to either set up a local testnet or connect to an existing network. For easy testing, the Archway `Constantine` testnet is available for deploying and running your contracts.

To set up a local testnet, see [Running a Local Testnet](/validators/becoming-a-validator/running-a-local-testnet). For details on the Archway `Constantine` testnet, see the [Networks](/resources/networks#constantine-supported-testnet) page.

The `Constantine` testnet utilizes the `uconst` native token, which is required for paying transaction fees. To obtain these free testnet tokens, see the [Requesting Testnet Tokens](/developers/guides/faucet) page.

You can access the `Constantine` testnet through the following methods:
- Install `archwayd` and interact with the network via the CLI. For an overview of `archwayd`, see [Archwayd CLI](/developers/developer-tools/daemon)
- Use the `Archway Developer CLI` npm package, which acts as a wrapper around rustc, cargo, archwayd and cosmwasm-rust-optimizer. For an overview of the `Archway Developer CLI`, see [Archway Developer CLI](/developers/developer-tools/developer-cli)
- Building a Javascript app using `arch3.js`, which functions as a wrapper for the CosmosJS library. For an overview of `arch3.js`, see [arch3.js](/developers/developer-tools/arch3js)

## Setting up wallets

To execute transactions using `archwayd` and the `Archway Developer CLI`, you need to set up Archway accounts. The [Project Setup](/developers/getting-started/setup) guide will walk you through creating an account using the `Archway Developer CLI`.
