---
objectID: community|wallet|archwayd|ledger|keplr
parentSection: Participate
parentSectionPath: /community
title: Set up using Ledger
description: Learn how to set up an Archway wallet with an hardware wallet such as Ledger
---


# Set up ledger (hardware wallet)


A <a href="https://www.ledger.com/" target="_blank">Ledger</a> is a hardware cryptocurrency wallet, a physical device that securely stores users' private keys offline. It enables users to manage, store, and interact with their cryptocurrencies while providing a high level of security.


How it works:

Some of the considerations when using an hardware wallet are:

- **Security**: Ensure you store your 24-word recovery phrase in a safe and secure location, preferably offline. Do not share it with anyone or take digital photos of it, as it can be used to access your funds.

- Device **authenticity**: Purchase your Ledger device from the official Ledger website or a reputable retailer to avoid counterfeit devices that may compromise your funds' security.


There are important pros when using a hardware wallet, such as:

- Highest level of security for storing cryptocurrencies, as private keys are stored offline.
- Immune to most online threats and malware (as the device works with its own firmware).
- Suitable for long-term storage and securing large amounts of funds.

While some of the cons are:

- Cost to purchase the hardware device.
- Less convenient for frequent transactions or dapp interactions.


# Set up a hardware wallet with Ledger

When you first set up your Ledger device, you'll be prompted to create a new wallet or restore an existing one. During the setup, you'll generate a unique 24-word recovery phrase (also known as a mnemonic or seed phrase). This phrase is crucial for recovering your wallet and funds if you lose the device or need to reset it.

The 24-word mnemonic is generated and stored in the device, and it is compatible with Cosmos blockchains, so that accounts can be derived from it. 

1. Download the **Ledger Live** app
2. Connect your - <a href="https://www.ledger.com/" target="_blank">Ledger</a>Ledger via USB and update to the latest firmware
3. From the **Ledger Live** app store, download the _Cosmos_ (ATOM) application. 
4. Navigate to the **Cosmos** (ATOM) app on your Ledger device

Great! Now you can either use your Ledger address with Keplr:

## Connect Ledger with Keplr

Here are the steps:

1. Make sure to close Ledger Live as it can conflict with Keplr.
2. Google Chrome is advised when using Keplr.
3. [Install Keplr](https://keplr.crunch.help/getting-started/installing-keplr-wallet)
Accessing your Ledger Cosmos account(s) via Keplr.
4. Connect your Ledger device to your computer and open the Cosmos app on your device.
5. Select the Keplr extension icon and select **Import Ledger**.
6. Use the Keplr extension to switch the networks.


## Use Ledger with archwayd

1. [Install the archway CLI](/developers/getting-started/install#archway-developer-cli)


2. Create your Archway address now by using Ledger with the **archwayd** daemon using the flag **--ledger**

The flag tells **archwayd** to use your Ledger to seed the account.
You may have to enable **Dev Mode** in the settings of **Ledger Live** to be able to download it.

   ::highlight-card

```bash
archwayd keys add <account label> --ledger
```

::
::alert{variant="warning"}
Creating Ledger accounts will only work if the Ledger is charged, plugged in, and unlocked.
#title
Warning
::
