---
objectID: developers|developer-tools|arch3js|introduction
title: Introduction
description: Provides information on the arch3.js library
parentSection: Developers
parentSectionPath: /developers
---

# arch3.js

arch3.js is a JavaScript library that provides a set of tools to make it easy for developers to interact with the Archway network and create dapps, without the need of interacting with the CLI or the archwad daemon directly.

<a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/@archwayhq/arch3-core" target="_blank" >arch3.js</a> is a JavaScript library that enables the interaction between front-end web applications and the Archway Protocol. It is a replacement for using the <a href="https://github.com/cosmos/cosmjs" target="_blank" >cosmJS</a> client.

The main purpose of arch3.js is to make it easier for developers to send and receive transactions, query blockchain data, send IBC packets and much more...


arch3.js is designed to work seamlessly with other JavaScript libraries and frameworks, streamlining integration with existing web and mobile applications. This can be particularly useful for developers who are building dapps that require integration with traditional web or mobile applications.

# Use cases

arch3.js is a powerful tool, and it enables several usecases:

- Build dapps that leverage the features of the Archway network, with a custom front-end.
- Create interfaces for sending and receiving assets on the Archway network.
- Querying blockchain data and providing analytics or reporting tools.
- Create user-facing applications that leverage IBC transactions.
- Automate the deployment and ntiation of smart contracts.

## Next Steps

Now that you understood the power of arch3.js, it is time to [install it](installation.md)

