---
objectID: developers_getting-started_compile-contract
title: Compiling a contract
description: Instructions for compiling and optimizing smart contracts to be deployed to the Archway network
parentSection: Developers
parentSectionPath: /developers
---

# Compiling a contract

To deploy your smart contracts to the Archway blockchain, you need to build an optimized version of your contract, which will be generated as a **.wasm** executable.

For building and optimizing your contracts, we use the [Rust Optimizer](https://github.com/CosmWasm/optimizer). This tool allows for compiling and optimizing multiple contracts within a workspace project, a feature that the [Archway Developer CLI](/developers/developer-tools/developer-cli) utilizes. This process is handled via [Docker](/developers/getting-started/install#docker), making Docker a required dependency.

## Prerequisites

Before proceeding, please refer to the [Installation of Development Tools](/developers/getting-started/install) guide to install the necessary dependencies. Specifically, ensure that [Docker](/developers/getting-started/install#docker) is installed and running.

## Compiling with the Archway Developer CLI

The [Archway Developer CLI](/developers/developer-tools/developer-cli) has a unique project structure with specific requirements for the CLI to function correctly. If you created a smart contract project using the Archway Developer CLI, for example, if you went through the [Project Setup guide](/developers/getting-started/setup), you can compile all contracts in your project by executing the following command in the root of your project:

```shell
archway contracts build
```

To build a single contract within your project, execute the following command, replacing `[CONTRACT]` with the actual name of your contract:

```shell
archway contracts build [CONTRACT]
```

## Compiling other contracts

For this example, we will download and compile an open-source smart contract. Begin by downloading the [cw-contracts](https://github.com/InterWasm/cw-contracts) repository. You will be compiling the **nameservice** contract. Execute the following set of commands:

```shell
git clone https://github.com/InterWasm/cw-contracts
cd cw-contracts
git checkout main
cd contracts/nameservice
```

Then, run the following command to compile the contract:

```shell
docker run --rm -v "$(pwd)":/code \
  --mount type=volume,source="$(basename "$(pwd)")_cache",target=/target \
  --mount type=volume,source=registry_cache,target=/usr/local/cargo/registry \
  cosmwasm/optimizer:0.16.0
```

This command will optimize the contract code and generate an optimized **cw_nameservice.wasm** file which is then stored in the **artifacts** directory.
