---
objectID: developers_developer-tools_arch3rs
title: Arch3.rs
description: Rust library for interacting with the Archway Protocol
parentSection: Developers
parentSectionPath: /developers
---

# Arch3.rs: Rust SDK for Archway

**Arch3.rs** is a Rust SDK tailored for building on the Archway blockchain. It provides developers with the necessary tools to interact with Archway's modules and ProtoBuf definitions in their CosmWasm smart contracts and gRPC clients. The SDK consists of two key packages: **Bindings** and **Proto**, enabling seamless interaction with Archway-specific features and Cosmos SDK messages.

## Archway Bindings

The **Bindings** package offers CosmWasm bindings to directly interact with Archway’s custom modules. This package adheres to the [specifications](https://github.com/archway-network/archway/blob/main/x/rewards/spec/08_wasm_bindings.md) laid out by the Archway Protocol, ensuring full compatibility and ease of use for developers building on the platform.

### Features

- Comprehensive access to Archway-specific modules.
- Easy integration within CosmWasm smart contracts.
- Follows Archway’s rewards module specifications for seamless integration.

Check out the [example contract](https://github.com/archway-network/arch3.rs/tree/main/contracts/increment) to see how the bindings are used in a real-world smart contract scenario.

## Proto

The **Proto** package provides a Rust build of Archway's ProtoBuf definitions, allowing developers to work with the Archway protocol's messages in both smart contracts and gRPC clients. Based on `cosmos-sdk-proto v0.18.0`, this package offers the same feature definitions while enabling tonic gRPC clients by default.

### Usage in CosmWasm Smart Contracts

To integrate Archway ProtoBuf definitions into your smart contract, include the following dependency in your `Cargo.toml` file:

```toml
archway-proto = { version = "0.1.0", default-features = false, features = ["cosmwasm"] }
```
