---
objectID: developers|developer-tools|swagger
title: Swagger
description: Provides the available swagger endpoints.
parentSection: Developers
parentSectionPath: /developers
---

# What is Swagger?

<a href="https://swagger.io/tools/open-source/" target="_blank" >Swagger</a> is an open-source software framework that helps developers design, build, document, and consume RESTful Web services.


The Swagger specification serves as the contract for the API. It includes details about endpoints, request/response types, authentication methods, contact information, license, terms of use, and more.

Each endpoint uses the HTTP GET method. Every operation returns either a successful HTTP 200 response with a defined schema or a default error response.

Swagger is provided for both <a href="https://api.mainnet.archway.io/swagger/" target="_blank" >mainnet</a> and <a href="https://api.constantine.archway.tech/swagger/" target="_blank" >testnet</a>.




## How to use the swagger?

To use this Swagger API documentation, you must first set up the necessary API calls from a tool or platform that supports RESTful HTTP requests. Here are the general steps you would follow:

1) Identify the API Endpoint: First, select the API endpoint you want to interact with. For instance, if you want to get the latest block's details for Archway mainnet, the endpoint would be **https://api.mainnet.archway.io/blocks/latest**.

2) Choose the HTTP Method: For all the endpoints in this specification, the HTTP method is GET.

3) Construct the API URL: This involves appending the API endpoint to the base URL of the API.

4) Include Query Parameters (if needed): Some endpoints require additional parameters that should be included in the request. For instance, the **/validatorsets** endpoint accepts a block height as a parameter: **https://api.mainnet.archway.io/validatorsets/18000**.

5) Send the Request: Use a tool, library, or software that can send HTTP requests. This could be a command-line tool like curl, a programming language with libraries for sending HTTP requests, or a complete API platform like Postman or Insomnia.

6) Handle the Response: The response will be a JSON object, as defined by the schemas in the Swagger specification. 


## Example

An example on how to query the information regarding the latest block, would be to launch the following command in your terminal shell:

::highlight-card

```bash
curl -X 'GET' \
  'https://api.mainnet.archway.io/blocks/latest' \
  -H 'accept: application/json'
```

::
