---
objectID: developers_developer-tools_vaalidator-exporter
title: Validator exporter
description: Monitoring tool for Archway blockchain validators
parentSection: Developers
parentSectionPath: /developers
---

# Validator exporter

The [Validator Exporter](https://github.com/archway-network/validator-exporter) is a monitoring tool designed to track the performance and health of validators on the Archway Network. It exports key metrics that provide insight into validator activity, ensuring that operators have real-time data to maintain optimal validator uptime and performance. With integration into Prometheus, the exporter enables easy metric collection and visualization through platforms like Grafana.

## Key features

- **Validator Monitoring:** Export metrics related to the performance and health of validators on the Archway blockchain.
- **Prometheus-Compatible:** Seamlessly integrates with Prometheus, allowing you to collect, scrape, and visualize validator metrics.
- **Real-Time Data:** Continuously monitor validator performance in real time, helping to maintain high availability and prevent downtime.
- **Customizable Metrics:** Configure the exporter to track specific metrics relevant to your validator operations, such as block heights, missed blocks, and voting power.

## How it works

The **Validator Exporter** gathers vital performance data from the Archway blockchain and presents it in a format that can be scraped by Prometheus. This real-time data includes:
- **Missed Blocks:** Track the number of blocks your validator has missed.
- **Voting Power:** Monitor changes in voting power for your validator.
- **Validator Uptime:** Ensure your validator is live and participating in consensus.
- **Block Height:** Track the latest block height and compare it to other network nodes to detect any synchronization issues.

By providing these metrics, the exporter allows operators to quickly detect potential issues and optimize the performance of their validators, ensuring continuous participation in the network and preventing downtime penalties.
