---
objectID: developers_developer-tools_network-registry
title: Network registry
description: A repository that contains configuration details for various Archway blockchain networks, including mainnet, testnet, and dev networks.
parentSection: Developers
parentSectionPath: /developers
---

# Network registry

The [Network Registry](https://github.com/archway-network/networks) is a vital resource for developers, validators, and IBC (Inter-Blockchain Communication) operators within the Archway ecosystem. It offers a comprehensive directory of all active networks, including both testnet and mainnet environments, along with configuration details, network parameters, and Archway IBC channel information. This centralized repository ensures that users have access to the latest configuration files and data for seamless network interaction and node management.

## Key features

- **Comprehensive Network Information:** Provides a full list of active Archway networks, including testnets and mainnet, with their respective configurations.
- **IBC Channels:** Includes detailed information about all active **Archway IBC channels**, allowing developers and validators to track and manage inter-chain communication.
- **Network Configuration Files:** Offers downloadable configuration files such as `genesis.json`, `config.toml`, and other key parameters to set up nodes.
- **Network Parameters:** Lists essential details like chain IDs, RPC endpoints, P2P addresses, and genesis files for each network.
- **Continuous Updates:** Regularly updated to reflect new network launches, upgrades, or changes in IBC channels.
